To bake this to a normal map.
We're going to have to first create a new material so let's come over here to that UVA editing tab.
And currently this object still has that character material on it.
Let's create a new material for the bake.
Let's come over here to the materials panel.
I'll hit the minus button to remove that material from this object and let's hit new and I'll just call
this hair.
All right.
So now we need to create a texture that we're going to bake the normal map onto.
So let's come over here and click new and we'll call this hair normal.
And I want to make this map the same size as we did previously.
So I'm just going to type in Asterix for and hit enter.
So we get that fourteen ninety six so I'll just type in 40 96 here as well and then I'll click.
OK all right.
So here is the texture map that we're going to bake the normals to once again we've got an asterix here
at the image menu.
I'm going to click that and choose save as and here in the texture folder I'll save the hair normal
image.
And now we need to bring that image up in the here into the note editor.
So let's press Shift A and we'll bring in an image texture here.
Drop it there and now let's just pull this menu down and choose hair normal there OK.
We don't have to connect it up or anything we can just leave it here in the note editor.
Now let's come over to our render panel right here.
And currently we have the IVA render engine selected and to bake a texture map currently we need to
switch over to the cycles renderer.
So we'll do that.
Come over here and twirl down the bake arrow and let's change our bake type from combined to normal
right here.
All right.
So now that we have this object selected we have a image texture created.
And here in the note Ed I want to have this clear image checkbox checked right down here so that it
clears away the black when it creates the normal map.
And I think we're ready to go so let's just click bake
and there it is.
So if we zoom in down here you can see we've got our strokes and our micro details in there.
So that looks pretty good.
Now let's apply it.
So what let's do is hide this.
Come over here and hide it here.
Let's bring back our character right here and let's apply this sculpt detail to our character material.
If I click on the character here it'll switch over to the material that's on it the character and then
we can come over here and add it to the note Ed. So let's press shift a bring in a new image texture
node drop it here.
We need to first of all save this to the hard drive.
So let's go ahead and click image and save and now let's go pick it up off the hard drive.
I'll click open.
Go to my textures and let's click on here.
Normal.
There it is now let's change this from color to non color data.
And then we can't just hook up this yellow color socket to this blue normal socket.
We need a node in between here to transfer.
So what let's do is let's press shift a again go to vector and let's choose normal map.
And here we are.
So now we can take this yellow color to here and the blue normal to there.
Now let's come over to this window and let's switch over to the Look Dev and there we go.
We can see our sculpt detail on the character.
Yeah.
Let's go over to the layout tab now and switch over to the Look Dev and there we go.
Yeah he's looking pretty good.
We've got that detail in there.
And we've got the sculpt strokes in there.
I think that will work just fine.
In fact you know what we could go ahead and test this in unity.
Why don't we open up unity and give it a try what we can do is select our character here and we can
go to file and export and export FBI eggs and down here we can choose selected objects only right here
and I'll create a new folder and I'll just call it exports we go and I'll put that right in here.
Just as a test I'm going to hit export FCX right there and then let's go over to unity and and put this
in the game engine and see how it looks.
Here in unity I can come down into the assets folder here and just right click and choose important
new asset I'll go into my exports and I'll choose the FBI X character their and then I will also import
new assets and go into my textures folder.
Select these two and import those.
All right.
And before I bring this in I better create a new material as well.
I'm going to right click and choose create and material right here.
And let's just call this Lego character.
Now I can take that FBI x file and drag it over here into the hierarchy.
Mary is now I can take the new material and drag it onto the character and we go and then what I can
do is come over here open up the material in the inspector and let's drag in the color into the albedo
and let's drag in the normal map into the normal map slot we'll click fix now to market as a normal
map and we go.
And let me grab the directional light here and move it up and I'll also turn it all rotated around so
we can see a little bit better.
And hey there we go there's our character.
Now we can select this and increase the metallic a bit if we want or increase the smoothness if we want
to make him a little more shiny.
But yeah I think he's looking pretty good all right.
So we have our character modeled and textured and we can bring him into unity and set up the material
and texture.
So in the next section of the course what we need to do is rig the character so we can begin to animate
him.